Bio:

Flemming Andersen is a Principal Engineer and formal verification manager at Intel. He joined the company in 2000 where he hired, developed, and managed the formal verification team at the Texas Austin site. In 2005 he was offered the opportunity to work at the Intel Research Labs in the Trusted Platform Lab (TPL) in Oregon to hire, manage, and develop a team investigating formal methods for security. When TPL was closed end of 2006 as part of a cross company cost cutting, Flemming started to work in the Server Development Division that implements the Many Integrated Core (SDG/MIC) server processors known as the Xeon-Phi processors that are used in Intel processor based super computers. One of these is the "Milky Way" supercomputer which is currently one of the fastest computers in the world.

In SDG/MIC Flemming owns and manages the formal verification (FV) of the RTL in the Xeon-Phi processors. The main focus is on arithmetic verification since we never want to encounter a new FDIV bug like the one that cost Intel almost $500 million in 1994. But the FV-team also verifies the correct functionality of RAS/ECC and other critical areas that benefits such as modeling cache coherence protocols. The last several years at Intel he has been working on developing formal methods to bridge the gap between formal verification and simulation based validation techniques. 

Before coming to USA, Flemming managed a team of 19 researchers in TeleDanmark R&D where he was responsible for developing new Internet services. His team implemented the Yellow Pages in Denmark and a VOIP solution like an early version of Skype already in 1996.  He originally started as a research scientist at TeleDanmark Research (TDR) where he participated in the implementation of compilers and developed formal verification tools for concurrency.  During his employment at TDR, he had two years leave of absence working as a guest scientist at the IBM Science Center in Heidelberg/Germany where he did research in databases and helped IBM develop a new hierarchical database query language that contributed to the definition SQL2.

Flemming has a PhD-degree in computer science as well as an M.Sc.EE degree from the Technical University of Denmark. His PhD-work on formal verification of concurrent systems using the UNITY theory led to an invitation to work with Professor Mani Chandy at Caltech and later collaboration with Professor Jayadev Misra at the University of Texas at Austin. Flemming has 6 granted US patents and 31 publications of which more than 15 have been presented at conferences. Before coming to USA Flemming served on review committees and conference panels, was EU-reviewer, served on program committees, and is currently a member of IEEE and ACM.

